docs: ui.table (#776)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/components/table.md

# Table

Tables are wrappers for Deephaven tables that allow you to change how the table is displayed in the UI and handle user events.

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui, empty_table

_t = empty_table(10).update("X=i")
t = ui.table(_t)
```

## UI Recommendations

1. It is not necessary to use a UI table if you do not need any of its properties. You can just use the Deephaven table directly.
2. Use a UI table to show properties like filters as if the user had created them in the UI. Users will be able to change the default values provided by the UI table such as filters.
3. UI tables handle ticking tables automatically, so you can pass any Deephaven table to a UI table.

## Events

> You can listen for different user events on a `ui.table`. There is both a `press` and `double_press` event for `row`, `cell`, and `column`. These events typically correspond to a click or double click on the table. The event payloads include table data related to the event. Note there is not a row index in event data because the row index is not a safe way to reference a row between the client and server since the user could have manipulated the table resulting in a different client order.

Reviewer: Do we have always fetch columns or whatever we were calling it? Should not that for row data you will only get columns within the users +/- horizontal viewport unless it's always fetched.

Author: No we don't. Ya good call I forgot to mention the viewport limit for the retrieved data.

I think we should add `always_fetch_columns` next probably. It should be a very easy add

    dx.data.stocks(),
    context_menu=create_context_menu
)
```

## Column Order and Visibility

You can freeze columns to the front of the table using the `frozen_columns` prop. Frozen columns will always be visible on the left side of the table, even when the user scrolls horizontally. The `frozen_columns` prop takes a list of column names to freeze.

You can also pin columns to the front or back of the table using the `front_columns` and `back_columns` props. Pinned columns will be moved to the front/back of the table and will not be moveable by the user. These columns will still scroll off the screen if the uesr needs to scroll horizontally. The `front_columns` and `back_columns` props take a list of column names to pin.

Columns can also be hidden by defualt using the `hidden_columns` prop. Note that the user can still expand these columns if they want to see them. The columns will be collapsed by default. The `hidden_columns` prop takes a list of column names to hide.

```py
from deephaven import ui
import deephaven.plot.express as dx

t = ui.table(
    dx.data.stocks(),
    frozen_columns=["sym", "exchange"],
    front_columns=["price"],
    back_columns=["index"],

>     hidden_columns=["random"]

Reviewer: I thought these had column names had been capitalized now.

Author: Yep. I'm reopening #380 because I had an old version installed since we don't clean our build output before building. I accidentally installed 0.11.1 instead of 0.11.2 because I have both whls in my build directory

The `name` prop is the name of the column group. Column group names must follow the same guidelines as column names. Group names should be unique among all column names and group names.

The `children` prop is a list of column names or groups that belong to the group. Any columns or groups should only ever be listed as children in one group.

The `color` prop is optional and sets the color of the column group header.

Column groups may be nested by including the name of another group in the `children` list of a group.

The following example shows how to group columns and nest groups.

```py
from deephaven import ui
import deephaven.plot.express as dx

t = ui.table(
    dx.data.stocks(),
    column_groups=[
        {
            "name": "Sym_Info",
            "children": ["Sym", "Exchange"],
        },
        {
            "name": "Price_Info",
            "children": ["Size", "Price", "Dollars"]
        },
        {
            "name": "All_Info",
            "children": ["Sym_Info", "Price_Info"],
            "color": "#3b6bda"
        }
    ]
)
```

![Example of column groups](../_assets/table_column_groups.png)

## Quick Filters

> Quick filters are an easy way to filter the table and show the user what filters are currently applied. These filters are applied by the client, so users may change the filters without affecting other users. Unlike a `where` statement to filter a table on the server, quick filters can be easily changed by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quick filters are an easy way to filter the table while also showing the user what filters are currently applied. These filters are still applied by the server, but at request time by the client, so users may change the filters without affecting other users. Unlike a `where` statement to filter a table on the server, quick filters can be easily changed by the user.
```

Quick filters may be preferred if you have multiple servers or workers hosting your data. If, for example, the table is on another Deephaven instance, performing a `where` operation on the table may require copying all of the data from the host server into the server running Deephaven UI. With a quick filter, the filter can instead be applied directly on the server hosting the table.

Quick filters can be added to the table using the `quick_filters` prop. The `quick_filters` prop takes a dictionary where the key is the column and the value is the filter to apply.

The quick filter bar can be expanded by default with the `show_quick_filters` prop.

```py
from deephaven import ui
import deephaven.plot.express as dx

t = ui.table(
    dx.data.stocks(),
    show_quick_filters=True,
    quick_filters={
        "Sym": "CAT",
        "Exchange": "TPET",
        "Price": ">=100"
    }
)
```

![Example of quick filters](../_assets/table_quick_filter.png)

## Reverse

> The table can be displayed in reverse order using the `reverse` prop. The reverse will be performed on the client and indicated to the user via a bar under the column headers. Users can disable the reverse with the column header context menu or via shortcut.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table can be displayed in reverse row order using the `reverse` prop. Using the reverse prop visually indicates to the user that table is reversed via a colored bar under the column headers.  Users will able to disable the reverse with the column header context menu or via shortcut. The reverse will be applied on the server at request time by the client.
```
